.TH arr2clm 1  "version 5.6.20" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
arr2clm \- convert 2-D float arrays into CLM file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arr2clm
[\-firstyear y] [\-scale factor] [\-id string] [\-float] [\-version v] [\-r value] [\-invalid value]
gridfile arrfile clmfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts binary 2-D float arrays into CLM input data. The array has to be of size 360/lon_resolution x 180/lat_resolution. The latitudes have to start with 90-0.5*lat_resolution, the longitudes with -180+0.5*lon_resolution. The reolution is taken from the grid file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-firstyear y
Set first year in CLM file, default is 1901
.TP
\-scale factor
scaling factor for CLM files. Default is one
.TP
\-id string
LPJ header string in clm file
.TP
\-version v
version of clm header, default is 3
.TP
\-float
write float values in clm file, default is short
.TP
\-invalid value
value of invalid data in array file, default is -9999.
.TP
\-r value
value to replace invalid data in CLM file, default is the invalid value.
.TP
.I gridfile
filename of grid data file
.TP
.I arrfile
filename of array file to convert
.TP
.I clmfile
filename of CLM file
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create CLMata file replacing invalid data by 10.
.B arr2clm
-float -r 10.0 grid.clm array.bin data.clm
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B arr2clm
returns a zero exit status if the CLM file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
cdf2coord(1), cdf2bin(1), clm2cdf(1), bin2cdf(1), country2cdf(1), regridlpj(1), lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), clm(5)
