.TH bin2cdf 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
bin2cdf \- convert binary output files into NetCDF files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bin2cdf
[\-h] [\-v] [\-clm] [\-floatgrid] [\-doublegrid] [\-revlat] [\-days] [\-absyear] [\-cellsize size] [\-compress level] [\-descr d] [\-missing_value val] [[\-attr name=value] ...] [\-units u] [-global] [-swap] [\-short] [\-nbands n] [\-nstep n] [\-timestep t] [\-ispft] [\-firstyear y] [\-baseyear y] [\-scale s] [\-notime] [\-metafile] [\-config file] [\-netcdf4] [\-map name]
.I [varname gridfile] binfile netcdffile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts binary output files into NetCDF file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h,\--help
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-v,\--version
Print LPJmL version.
.TP
\-clm
File is in clm format, default is raw.
.TP
\-floatgrid
Set datatype of grid file to float, default is short.
.TP
\-doublegrid
Set datatype of grid file to double, default is short.
.TP
\-revlat
Reverse latitudinal bands.
.TP
\-days
Use days as units for time axis in output.
.TP
\-absyear
Use absolute years as units for annual time axis instead of relative years to base year.
.TP
\-netcdf4
File written is in NetCDF4 format, compress flag is enabled.
.TP
\-cellsize size
Set cell size in grid file to size. Default is 0.5 deg.
.TP
\-compress level
Compression level for NetCDF4 files. Valid levels are 0 (no compression) to 9.
.TP
\-descr d
Set long name for variable in NetCDF file.
.TP
\-missing_value val
Set missing value for variable in NetCDF file to val.
.TP
\-attr name=value
Set global attribute name in NetCDF file to value.
.TP
\-units u
Set units for variable in NetCDF file.
.TP
\-global
Use global grid for NetCDF file.
.TP
\-swap
Change byte order in binary file.
.TP
\-short
Data type of output is short, default is float.
.TP
\-nstep n
Set number of outputs per year, default is 1.
.TP
\-nbands n
Set number of PFTs or layers, default is 1.
.TP
\-timestep t
Set number of years between time steps, default is 1. If timestep is greater than 1 then number of time steps within a year must be 1.
.TP
\-ispft
Output is PFT specific.
.TP
\-firstyear y
Set first year in NetCDF file. Default is 1901.
.TP
\-baseyear y
Set base year of time axis in NetCDF file. Default is firstyear.
.TP
\-scale s
Scale output with factor s, default is 1.
.TP
\-notime
Omit time axis.
.TP
\-metafile
Set the input format to JSON metafile instead of raw.
.TP
\-config file
read missing values and axis names from JSON file
.TP
\-map name
Name of map in JSON metafile, default is "band_names".
.TP
varname
Variable name in NetCDF file. If not specified variable name is read from metafile.
.TP
.I gridfile
Filename of grid data file. If not specified filename is read from metafile.
.TP
.I binfile
Filename of binary data file or JSON metafile if -metafile option is set.
.TP
.I netcdffile
Filename of NetCDF file created.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create NetCDF file for vegetation carbon:
.B bin2cdf
-units gC/m2 -descr "vegetation carbon" vegc output/grid.bin output/vegc.bin vegc.nc
.TP
Convert monthly data:
.B bin2cdf
-units gC/m2/month -descr "Net primary production" -nstep 12 npp output/grid.bin output/mnpp.bin mnpp.nc
.TP
Create NetCDF file from JSON metafile:
.B bin2cdf
-metafile vegc.bin.json vegc.nc
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B bin2cdf
returns a zero exit status if the NetCDF file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
allbin2cdf(1), cdf2bin(1), cmpbin(1), soil2cdf(1), clm2cdf(1), country2cdf(1), drainage2cdf(1), reservoir2cdf(1), lpjml(1)
