.TH cdf2clm 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
cdf2clm \- convert NetCDF files into CLM files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdf2clm
[\-h] [\-v] [\-scale factor] [\-units u] [\-var name] [\-time name] [\-map name] [\-id string] [\-version v] [\-float] [\-zero] [\-json] [\-o clmfile]
gridfile netcdffile ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts NetCDF input data into CLM input data.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h,\--help
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-v,\--verbose
Print name of NetCDF files.
.TP
\-scale factor
Scaling factor for CLM files. Default is 1. If factor differs from 1 and -float option is set a warning is printed and scaling factor reset to 1.
.TP
\-units u
Set unit to convert from  NetCDF file.
.TP
\-var name
Variable name in NetCDF file.
.TP
\-time name
Name of time in NetCDF file, default is "time" or "TIME".
.TP
\-map name
Name of map in NetCDF file. If specified the map is read and put into the JSON metafile.
.TP
\-id string
LPJ header string in clm file.
.TP
\-version v
Version of clm header, default is 3.
.TP
\-float
Write float values in clm file, default is short.
.TP
\-zero
Write zero values in clm file if data is not found.
.TP
\-json
JSON metafile is created with suffix '.json'.
.TP
.I -o clmfile
Filename of CLM data file written. Default is out.clm.
.TP
.I gridfile
Filename of grid data file.
.TP
.I netcdffile
Filename of NetCDF file(s) converted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create CLM data file and corresponding JSON metafile for temperature:
.B cdf2clm
-float -json -units celsius -var tas -o temp1901-2010.clm  grid.clm tmp*.nc
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B cdf2clm
returns a zero exit status if the CLM file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
cdf2grid(1), cdf2coord(1), cdf2bin(1), clm2cdf(1), bin2cdf(1), country2cdf(1), regridlpj(1), lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), arr2clm(1), clm(5)
