.TH cdf2grid 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
cdf2grid \- convert grid NetCDF file into grid CLM or raw file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdf2grid
[\-var name] [\-{float|double}] [\-scale s] [\-raw] [\-json] netcdffile gridfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts grid file written in NetCDF format to grid file in raw or CLM format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-var name
Variable name in NetCDF file. If not specified the first variable with 2 dimensions is chosen.
.TP
\-scale factor
Scaling factor for CLM grid file. Default is 0.01 for short values in CLM grid file, 1 for float or double values. If factor differs from 1 and -float or -double option is set a warning is printed and scaling factor reset to 1.
.TP
\-{float|double}
Write float or double values in CLM grid file, default is short.
.TP
\-raw
Output format is raw without header, default is CLM format.
.TP
\-json
An additional JSON metafile with suffix \fI.json\fP is written.
.TP
.I netcdffile
Filename of grid NetCDF file.
.TP
.I gridfile
Filename of grid data file written.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create grid binary raw file and JSON metafile from grid NetCDF file:
.B cdf2grid
-raw -json grid.nc grid.bin
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B cdf2grid
returns a zero exit status if the CLM file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
cdf2coord(1), cdf2clm(1), clm2cdf(1), bin2cdf(1), country2cdf(1), regridlpj(1), lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), clm(5)
