.TH cdf2bin 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
cdf2bin \- convert NetCDF files into raw binary data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdf2bin
[\-h] [\-v] [\-swap] [\-units u] [\-var name] [\-map name] [\-clm] [\-byte] [\-cellsize size] [\-floatgrid] [\-doublegrid] [\-json] [\-o binfile]
gridfile netcdffile ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts NetCDF output data into raw binary output data.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h,\--help
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-v,\--verbose
Print name of NetCDF files.
.TP
\-swap
Byte order of grid file has to be swapped.
.TP
\-units u
Units to convert data from NetCDF file.
.TP
\-var name
Variable name in NetCDF file.
.TP
\-map name
Name of map in NetCDF file. If specified the map is read and put into the JSON metafile.
.TP
\-floatgrid
Set datatype of grid file to float, default is short.
.TP
\-doublegrid
Set datatype of grid file to double, default is short.
.TP
\-clm
Gridfile is in CLM format, default is raw.
.TP
\-byte
Output data is converted to byte.
.TP
\-cellsize size
Cell size in grid file, default is 0.5.
.TP
\-json
JSON metafile is created with suffix '.json'.
.TP
\-o binfile
Filename of raw binary data file written. Default is out.bin.
.TP
.I gridfile
Filename of binary grid data file consisting of short, float or double values or clm file if -clm option is set.
.TP
.I netcdffile
Filename of NetCDF file(s) converted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create output file for vegetation carbon:
.B cdf2bin
-var vegc -o vegc1901-2010.bin grid.bin vegc.nc
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B cdf2bin
returns a zero exit status if the binary file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
bin2cdf(1), cmpbin(1), cdf2clm(1), cdf2grid(1), country2cdf(1), regridlpj(1), lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), clm(5)
