.TH clm2cdf 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
clm2cdf \- convert CLM files into NetCDF files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clm2cdf
[\-h] [\-v] [\-global] [\-longheader] [\-scale factor] [\-cellsize size] [\-byte] [\-int] [\-float] [[\-attr name=value] ...] [\-intnetcdf] [\-metafile] [\-config \fIfile\fP] [\-map name] [\-raw] [\-nbands n] [\-landuse] [\-notime] [\-compress level] [\-units u] [\-descr d] [\-netcdf4] [\-missing_value val]
[varname \fIgridfile\fP] clmfile netcdffile
.I clmfile netcdffile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts CLM input data into NetCDF input data.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h,\--help
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-v,\--version
Print LPJmL version.
.TP
\-global
Use global grid for NetCDF file.
.TP
\-longheader
Force version of CLM file to 2.
.TP
\-scale factor
Scaling factor for CLM version 1 files. Default is 1.0.
.TP
\-cellsize size
Set cell size of grid file to size.
.TP
\-byte
Set data type in CLM file to byte, default is short or read from CLM header.
.TP
\-int
Set data type in CLM file to int, default is short or read from CLM header.
.TP
\-float
Set data type in CLM file to float, default is short or read from CLM header.
.TP
\-attr name=value
Set global attribute name in output files to value.
.TP
\-intnetcdf
Set data type in NetCDF file to int, default is float for short and float datatypes in CLM files.
.TP
\-netcdf4
File written is in NetCDF4 format, compress flag is enabled.
.TP
\-netcdf4
File written is in NetCDF4 format, compress flag is enabled.
.TP
\-int
set data type in CLM file to int, default is short or read from CLM header
.TP
\-metafile
Set the input format to JSON metafile instead of CLM.
.TP
\-config \fIfile\fP
read missing values and axis names from JSON file
.TP
\-map name
Name of map in JSON metafile, default is "map".
.TP
\-raw
Set the input format to raw instead of CLM.
.TP
\-nbands n
Set the number of bands to n. This is only active if raw format is set. Default is 1.
.TP
-landuse
Convert land-use input data.
.TP
-notime
No time dimension in NetCDF file.
.TP
\-compress level
Compression level for NetCDF4 files. Valid levels are 0 (no compression) to 9.
.TP
\-units u
Set units for variable in NetCDF file.
.TP
\-descr d
Set long name for variable in NetCDF file.
.TP
\-missing_value val
Set missing value for variable in NetCDF file to val.
.TP
varname
Variable name in NetCDF file. Variable name can be omitted if -metafile option is set. Then variable name is read from metafile.
.TP
.I gridfile
Filename of grid data file. Grid filename can be omitted if -metafile option is set. Then grid filename is read from metafile.
.TP
.I clmfile
Filename of CLM data file.
.TP
.I netcdffile
Filename of NetCDF file created.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create data file for temperature:
.B clm2cdf
-units celsius -descr temperature temp grid.bin tmp.clm tmp.nc
.TP
Create data file for temperature using JSON metafile:
.B clm2cdf
-metafile tmp.clm.json tmp.nc
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B clm2cdf
returns a zero exit status if the NetCDF file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
bin2cdf(1), country2cdf(1), drainage2cdf(1), reservoir2cdf(1), regridlpj(1), lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), clm(5)
