.TH country2cdf 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
country2cdf \- convert country code file into NetCDF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B country2cdf
[\-global] [-\cellsize size] [\-compress level] [\-descr d] [\-config \fIfile\fP] [\-index {0|1}] [\-netcdf4] varname
.I gridfile countryfile netcdffile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts country input file into NetCDF file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-global
Use global grid for NetCDF file.
.TP
\-cellsize size
Set cell size in grid file to size.
.TP
\-compress level
Compression level for NetCDF4 files. Valid levels are 0 (no compression) to 9.
.TP
\-descr d
Set long name in NetCDF file.
.TP
\-config \fIfile\fP
read missing values and axis names from JSON file
.TP
\-index {0|1}
Extract country (0) or region (1) in file. Default is 0.
.TP
\-netcdf4
File written is in NetCDF4 format, compress flag is enabled.
.TP
varname
Variable name in NetCDF file.
.TP
.I gridfile
Filename of grid data file.
.TP
.I countryfile
Filename of country/region code data file.
.TP
.I netcdffile
Filename of NetCDF file created.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create data file for country:
.B country2cdf
country  grid.bin cow.bin country.nc
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B country2cdf
returns a zero exit status if the NetCDF file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
bin2cdf(1), clm2cdf(1), soil2cdf(1), regridlpj(1), lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), clm(5)
