.TH cru2clm 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
cru2clm \- convert raw binary data files to clm data files for LPJmL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cru2clm
[\-h] [\-firstyear first] [\-lastyear last] [\-nyear n] [\-scale s] [\-firstcell f] [\-ncell n] [\-nbands n] [\-swap] [\-yearcell]
.I  crufile clmfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts raw binary data file consisting of 16bit integer values into a file format suitable for LPJmL. It is primarily intended to convert climate data files from the Climate Research Unit (CRU).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-firstyear first
First year in CRU file (default is 1901).
.TP
\-lastyear last
Last year in CRU file.
.TP
\-nyear n
Number of years in CRU file (default is 103).
.TP
\-scale s
Set scale to s (default is 1).
.TP
\-firstcell f
First cell in data file (default 0).
.TP
-ncell  n
Number of cells in data file (default is 67420).
.TP
\-nbands n
Number of bands in data/output file (default is 12).
.TP
\-swap
Change byte order in CRU file.
.TP
\-yearcell
Does not revert order in CRU file.
.TP
.I crufile
Filename of binary CRU data file.
.TP
.I clmfile
Filename of clm data file written.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create clm data file from CRU dataset changing byte order:
.B cru2clm
\-swap tmp_1901-2003.bin tmp2003.clm
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B cru2clm
returns a zero exit status if the clm file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), asc2clm(1), txt2clm(1), grid2clm(1), cft2clm(1), arr2clm(1), catclm(1), clm(5)
