.TH lpjcheck 1  "April 27, 2009" "version 4.0.002" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
lpjcheck \- Checks syntax of LPJmL configuration files 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpjcheck
[\-h] [\-q] [-vv] [\-param] [-pp cmd] [\-output {write|gather|mpi2|socket=hostname[:port]}] [\-outpath \fIdir\fP]
[\-inpath \fIdir\fP] [\-restartpath \fIdir\fP] [[\-Dmacro[=value]] [\-I\fIdir\fP] ...]
[\fIfilename\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program checks the syntax of LPJmL configuration files. It is checked additionally whether all input files and output directories are present. 
\fBlpjcheck\fP will print the total amount of disk space used for the output files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
display a short help text
.TP
\-q
Only error messages are displayed, other output is suppressed.
.TP
\-vv
verbosely print the actual values during reading of the configuration files.
.TP
\-param
Print LPJmL parameter.
.TP
\-pp cmd
Set preprocessor program to cmd. Default is \fBcpp -P\fP.
.TP
\-output {gather|mpi2|socket=hostname[:port]}
use the given output method to write data to disk. Valid output methods are
write, mpi2, gather, and socket. The default output method for the MPI version is gather sending all output to the root task, while the default method for the sequential code is write. 
The methods gather and mpi2 are only valid for the MPI version of the code.
.TP
\-outpath \fIdir\fP
set the output directory path. The path is added to the output filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-inpath \fIdir\fP
set the input directory path. The path is added to the input filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-Dmacro[=value]
define macro for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
\-I\fIdir\fP
define include directory for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
.I filename
name of configuration file, default is \fIlpjml.conf\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Check default configuration file with input files located in the scratch file system
.B lpjcheck
\-input /scratch/02/lpj
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
LPJCONFIG
default LPJmL configuration filename
.TP
LPJPREP 
defines preprocessor command for LPJmL configuration file, default is \fBcpp -P\fP. Same as '-pp' option.
.TP
LPJROOT
defines the root directory for LPJmL. This directory is added to the
include directories of the preprocessor
.TP
LPJINPATH
Path appended to the input filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJOPTIONS     
runtime options for the preprocessor of LPJmL configuration files
.TP
LPJOUTPATH
Path appended to the output filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJRESTARTPATH
Path appended to the restart filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJOUTPUT 
Default method for generating output files. Valid values
are write, mpi2, gather, and socket.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B
lpjcheck
returns a zero exit status if the configuration file has no syntax errors and all input files and output directories exist.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), lpjfiles(1), lpjsubmit(1), lpjml.conf(5)
