.TH lpjfiles 1  "October 20, 2011" "version 1.0.002" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
lpjfiles \- Prints list of input/output files of LPJmL 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpjfiles
[\-h] [\-noinput] [-pp cmd] [\-outpath \fIdir\fP]
[\-inpath \fIdir\fP] [\-restartpath \fIdir\fP] [[\-Dmacro[=value]] [\-I\fIdir\fP] ...]
[\fIfilename\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program prints list of all input and output files of LPJmL configuration files. It can be used to get a list of files to be archived.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
display a short help text
.TP
\-noinput
does not list input data files
.TP
\-pp cmd
Set preprocessor program to cmd. Default is \fBcpp -P\fP.
.TP
\-outpath \fIdir\fP
set the output directory path. The path is added to the output filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-inpath \fIdir\fP
set the input directory path. The path is added to the input filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-Dmacro[=value]
define macro for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
\-I\fIdir\fP
define include directory for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
.I filename
name of configuration file, default is \fIlpjml.conf\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Archive files for default configuration file with input files located in the scratch file system
.B lpjfiles
\-input /scratch/01/lpj | tail -n +2 | tar -cf files.tar -T -
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
LPJCONFIG
default LPJmL configuration filename
.TP
LPJPREP 
defines preprocessor command for LPJmL configuration file, default is \fBcpp -P\fP. Same as '-pp' option.
.TP
LPJROOT
defines the root directory for LPJmL. This directory is added to the
include directories of the preprocessor
.TP
LPJINPATH
Path appended to the input filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJOPTIONS     
runtime options for the preprocessor of LPJmL configuration files
.TP
LPJOUTPATH
Path appended to the output filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJRESTARTPATH
Path appended to the restart filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B
lpjfiles
returns a zero exit status if the configuration file has no syntax errors.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), lpjcheck(1), lpjml.conf(5)
