.TH printharvest 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
printharvest \- Print global harvested carbon for crops and managed grasslands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B printharvest
[\-nopp] [\-pp cmd] [\-inpath \fIdir\fP] [\-outpath \fIdir\fP] [[\-Dmacro[=value]] [\-I\fIdir\fP] ...] \fIfilename\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program prints total harvested carbon of a LPJmL model run as comma-separated values. The LPJmL configuration file is read in order to find the location and name of the harvest data file, the name of the terrestrial area file and the name of the land-use fraction file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-nopp
Disabling preprocessing of configuration file by \fBcpp\fP.
.TP
\-pp cmd
Set preprocessor program to cmd. Default is \fBcpp\fP.
.TP
\-inpath \fIdir\fP
set the input directory path. The path is added to the input filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-outpath \fIdir\fP
set the output directory path. The path is added to the output filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-Dmacro{=value]
define macro for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
\-I\fIdir\fP
define include directory for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
.I filename
name of configuration file

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
Print harvest carbon with configuration file \fIlpjml.js\fP into \fIharvest.csv\fP.
.B printharvest -DFROM_RESTART lpjml.js >harvest.csv
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
LPJPREP 
defines preprocessor command for LPJmL configuration file, default is \fBcpp\fP.
.TP
LPJROOT
defines the root directory for LPJmL. This directory is added to the
include directories of the preprocessor
.TP
LPJINPATH
Path appended to the input filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJOPTIONS     
runtime options for the preprocessor of LPJmL configuration files
.TP
LPJOUTPATH
Path appended to the output filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B
printharvest
returns a zero exit status if the harvested carbon has been printed.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), printglobal(1)
