.TH regridclm 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
regridclm \- regrid CLM file to new grid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B regridclm
[\-h] [\-v] [\-metafile] [\-size4] [\-byte] [\-search] [\-zero] [\-longheader] [\-json]
.I [grid_old.clm] grid_new.clm data_old.clm data_new.clm
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program reads CLM file and corresponding grid file to regrid the data to a new grid file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h,\--help
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-v,--version
Print version.
.TP
\-metafile
Files are JSON metafiles describing the structure of the data. An additional JSON metafile with suffix \fI.json\fP is written.
.TP
\-size4
Size of CLM input data set to 4 bytes. By default size is read from header or set to 2 bytes for version<3.
.TP
\-byte
Size of CLM input data set to one byte. By default size is read from header or set to 2 bytes for version<3.
.TP
\-search
If grid coordinate cannot be found in old grid nearest grid cell is used.
.TP
\-zero
If grid coordinate cannot be found in old grid values are set to zero.
.TP
\-longheader
Version of CLM file is set to 2. By default version is read from file header.
.TP
\-json
An additional JSON metafile with suffix \fI.json\fP is written..
.TP
.I grid_old.clm
Corresponding grid filename of input data. Can be omitted if -metafile option is set and name of grid file can be read from JSON metafile.
.TP
.I grid_new.clm
New grid filename data should be regridded to.
.TP
.I  data_old.clm
Filename of data file that should be regridded.
.TP
.I data_new.clm
Filename of data file where regridded data is written.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Regrid CLM file to the grid file of the amazon basin:
.B regridclm
grid.clm grid_amazon.clm temp_1901-2018.clm temp_amazon_1901-2018.clm
.TP
Regrid CLM file to the grid file of the amazon basin using JSON metafiles:
.B regridclm
-metafile grid_amazon.clm temp_1901-2018.clm.json temp_amazon_1901-2018.clm

.SH EXIT STATUS
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
regridlpj(1), regridsoil(1), lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), clm(5)
