.TH regridlpj 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
regridlpj \- regrid input data set for selected countries or specified grid file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B regridlpj
[\-dir path] [\-inpath path] [-crumontly] [-oldlu] [-madrat]
.I filesuffix  [countrycode ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program regrids input files for selected countries if country codes are provided. If country code is missing grid file \fIgrid_filesuffix.clm\fP is used for regridding. Configuration file \fIinput_filesuffix.cjson\fP is created in the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-dir path
Set directory for regridded input files.
.TP
\-inpath path
set directory for input files to regrid. By default path defined in environmental variable LPJINPATH is used.
.TP
\-crumonthly
Instead of GSWP3-W5E5 climate data monthly CRU data is used.
.TP
\-oldlu
Instead of LandInG land-use data old data is used.
.TP
\-madrat
Instead of LandInG land-use data MADRAT data is used.
.TP
.I filesuffix
File suffix for regridded input files and configuration file.
.TP
.I countrycode
ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 abbreviations for countries or country
codes as numbers defined in
.I include/managepar.h
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create input data files for USA:
.B regridlpj
usa USA
.PP
.TP
Create input file for amazon basin:
.B regridlpj
amazon
.PP
grid file grid_amazon.clm in the current directory is used for regridding.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
getcountry(1), regridclm(1), regridsoil(1), lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), clm(5)
