.TH restart2yaml 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
restart2yaml \- Convert LPJmL restart file into YAML/JSON.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B restart2yaml
[\-h] [\-name key] [\-first] [\-json] [\-noindent] [\-invalid2null] [\-d n] [\-t] \fIrestartfile\fP [start [end]]

.B restart2json
[\-name key] [\-first] [\-noindent] [\-invalid2null] [\-t] \fIrestartfile\fP [start [end]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program prints contents of restart file of a LPJmL model run in YAML/JSON format. \fBrestart2json\fP is an alias for \fBrestart2yaml\fP -json.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h,\--help
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-name key
Print only variables/array/structures with name key.
.TP
\-first
Stop at first occurrence of key specified by the \-name option.
.TP
\-json
Output format is set to JSON, default ist YAML.
.TP
\-noindent
Disable indentations in JSON files to save storage space, default is 2 spaces per level.
.TP
\-invalid2null
Set all not a number (NaN) and infinite values to null. This is in particular useful for JSON output format, because these value are not defined in the standard.
.TP
\-d n
Set the number of decimal places for float/double values, default is 16.
.TP
\-t
Print only table of defined object names.
.TP
.I restartfile
Name of restart file.
.TP
.I start
Index of first grid cell to be printed.
.TP
.I end
Index of last grid cell to be printed.

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
Print restart file:
.B restart2yaml
restart.lpj >restart.yaml
.PP
.TP
Print restart file as JSON file without indentation:
.B restart2yaml
-json -noindent restart.lpj >restart.json
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B
restart2yaml
returns a zero exit status if the restart file has been printed.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
json2restart(1), lpjprint(1), lpjml(1), lpjcheck(1), lpjfiles(1)
