.TH txt2grid 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
txt2grid \- convert text files to clm grid data files for LPJ
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B txt2grid
[\-h] [\-v] [\-latlon] [\-map refgridfile] [-fmt s] [-skip n] [-cellsize size] [-cellsize_lon size] [-cellsize_lat size] [-float] [-double] [-json]
.I txtfile gridfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts text files into LPJ grid data files
By default text files have to be in the following format:

.nf
Id,Lon,Lat,X_CRU,Y_CRU
1,-179.75,-16.25,1,148
2,..
.ni
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h,\--help
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-v,\--verbose
Verbose output.
.TP
\-latlon
read first latitude then longitude value from text file.
.TP
\-map refgridfile
Map cell coordinate to nearest cell in refgridfile.
.TP
\-fmt s
Input format string for the scanf function in
.B txt2grid
, default is "%*d,%f,%f,%*d,%*d".
.TP
\-skip n
Skip first n lines in text file, default is 1.
.TP
\-cellsize size
Set latitudinal and longitudinal cell size, default is 0.5.
.TP
\-cellsize_lon size
Set longitudinal cell size, default is 0.5.
.TP
\-cellsize_lat size
Set latitudinal cell size, default is 0.5.
.TP
\-float
Longitude/latitude values written in float format to clm file, default is short.
.TP
\-double
Longitude/latitude values written in double format to clm file, default is short.
.TP
\-json
JSON metafile is created with suffix '.json'
.I textfile
Filename of text file to convert.
.TP
.I gridfile
Filename of clm grid data file written.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create clm grid data file from text file containing longitude/latitude values in each line:
.B txt2grid
-skip 0 -fmt "%f %f" grid.txt grid.clm
.TP
Create clm grid data file with double values from text file containing longitude/latitude values in each line:
.B txt2grid
-skip 0 -double -fmt "%lf %lf" grid.txt grid.clm
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B txt2grid
returns a zero exit status if the clm file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), txt2clm(1), cru2clm(1), grid2clm(1), catclm(1), clm(5)
