.TH txt2clm 1  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
txt2clm \- convert text files to clm data files for LPJmL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B txt2clm
[\-h] [\-version v] [\-float] [\-int] [\-csv c] [\-scale s] [\-nbands n] [-nstep n] [\-firstyear f] [\-firstcell c] [\-ncell n]  [\-header id] [\-json]
.I txtfile clmfile 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program converts text files containing white space separated numbers into LPJ climate data files. File is read until end of file is reached.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h,\--help
Print a short help text.
.TP
\-version v
Set clm version, default is 3.
.TP
\-float
Write data as float, default is short.
.TP
\-int
Write data as int, default is short.
.TP
\-csv c
Text file is in CSV format with separator character c.
.TP
\-scale s
Scale data by a factor.
.TP
\-nbands n
Set number of bands, default is 12.
.TP
\-nstep n
Set number of steps, default is 1.
.TP
\-firstyear f
Set first year, default is 1901.
.TP
\-firstcell c
Set first cell, default is 0.
.TP
\-ncell n
Set number of cells, default is 67420.
.TP
\-header id
Set header string in clm file, default is LPJCLIM.
.TP
\-json
JSON metafile is created with suffix '.json'.
.I txtfile
Filename of text file.
.TP
.I clmfile
Filename of clm data file written.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create clm data from text file:
.B txt2clm -nbands 365
tmp_1901-2003.txt tmp2003.clm
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B txt2clm
returns a zero exit status if the clm file is created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.

.SH AUTHORS

For authors and contributors see AUTHORS file

.SH COPYRIGHT

(C) Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), see COPYRIGHT file

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), asc2clm(1), cru2clm(1), grid2clm(1), txt2grid.(1), cft2clm(1), catclm(1), clm(5)
